validator tool doc (#9819)
MystenLabs/sui: nre/validator_tool.md

==Caveat: this tool only supports Pending Validators and Active Validators at the moment.==

## Preparation

1. Make sure you have completed all the [prerequisites](https://docs.sui.io/devnet/build/install).

2. Build the `sui` binary, which you will need for the genesis ceremony. This step can be done on any machine you like. It does not have to be done on the machine on which you will run the validator.

    1. Clone the git repo:

           git clone git@github.com:MystenLabs/sui.git && cd sui

    2. Check out the commit we will be using for the testnet:

           git checkout testnet

    3. Build sui binary

           cargo build --bin sui

    4. Remember the path to your binary:

           export SUI_BINARY="$(pwd)/target/debug/sui"

3. Run the following command to set up your Sui account and CLI environment. 

    1. If this is the first time running this program, it will ask you to provide a Sui Fullnode Server URL and a meaningful environment alias. It will aslo generate a random key pair in `sui.keystore` and a config `client.yaml`. Swap in your validator account key if you already have one.

    2. If you already set it up, simply make sure 

>       a. `rpc` is correct in `client.yaml`. 

Author: updated and pointed to an existing doc

      b. `active_address` is correct in `client.yaml`.
      b. `sui.keystore` contains your account key pair.

``` bash
$SUI_BINARY client
```

4. To test you are connected to the network and configured your config correctly, run the following command to display your validator info.

``` bash
$SUI_BINARY validator display-metadata
```

## Using Validator Tool

#### Print Help Info
``` bash
$SUI_BINARY validator --help
```

#### Display Validator Metadata
``` bash
$SUI_BINARY validator display-metadata
```

or 

``` bash
$SUI_BINARY validator display-metadata <validator-address>
```
to print another validator's information.

#### Update Validator Metadata
Run the following to see how to update each metadata. Read description carefully about when the change will take effects.
``` bash
$SUI_BINARY validator update-metadata --help
```

You can update the following on-chain metadata:
1. name
2. description
3. image URL
4. project URL
5. network address
6. p2p address
7. primary address
8. worker address
9. protocol public key
10. network public key
11. worker public key

> Notably, only the first 4 metadata take effects immediately. The remaining effectutates starting from the next epoch. **For them, you want to restart validator program immediately in the new epoch, with the new key files and/or updated `validator.yaml` config. Particularly, make sure the new address is not behind a firewall.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notably, only the first 4 metadata listed above take effect immediately. 

If you change any metadata from points 5 to 11, they will be changed only after the next epoch - **for these, you'll want to restart the validator program immediately after the next epoch, with the new key files and/or updated `validator.yaml` config. Particularly, make sure the new address is not behind a firewall.**
```

The Operation Cap holder (either the valdiator itself or the delegatee) updates its Gas Price and reports validator peers with the Operation Cap.

#### Update Gas Price
To update Gas Price, run

```bash
$SUI_BINARY validator update-gas-price <gas-price>
```

if the account itself is a validator and holds the Operation Cap. Or 

```bash
$SUI_BINARY validator update-gas-price --operation-cap-id <operation-cap-id> <gas-price>
```

if the account is a delegatee.

#### Report Validators
To report validators peers, run

```bash
$SUI_BINARY validator report-validator <reportee-address>
```

Add `--undo-report false` if it intents to undo an existing report.

Similarly, if the account is a delegatee, add `--operation-cap-id <operation-cap-id>` option to the command.

if the account itself is a validator and holds the Operation Cap. Or 

```bash
$SUI_BINARY validator update-gas-price --operation-cap-id <operation-cap-id> <gas-price>
```

if the account is a delegatee.

#### Become a Validator / Join Committee
To become a validator candidate, first run

```bash
$SUI_BINARY validator make-validator-info <name> <description> <image-url> <project-url> <host-name> <gas_price>
```

> to generate a `validator.info` file and key pair files. The output of this command includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this will generate a `validator.info` file and key pair files. The output of this command includes:
```
